I can record we are now recording
welcome to the Monday June 10th go IP of
st meeting thank you very much thank you
very much Molly okay so we're gonna do
this the same the same way we did this
last week I apologize I'm going to get a
little bit of background as we are
burning coffee
we have no announcements unless anyone
wants to announce anything right now
no blockers or needs that anyone knows
about anyone wants to minister in last
minute no okay sorry this is an
extremely long coffee grind okay there
we go
so let's get started with our current IP
FS initiatives starting with datastore
I'm not actually sure who is responsible
for this at the moment anyone in this
call speak to them Lucas that's okay we
can we can either update update
asynchronously or we can follow that up
at the end okay we can yes yes oh yeah
yeah so you should that's me and there
are no updates from myself are we
blocked on anything on the Badger team
don't thinks I need to check if they if
I needed a release very funny
yeah wait some time now so if they did
we can update butter and if we update
badger then hopefully the final issues
that we diagnosed as kind of being
blocking for pointing to this more as
like a default pathway for folks will be
resolved fingers crossed or their other
known thing standing in our way for that
yes so they are like one fix I think
because apparently there is
some other way to make things work but I
think it's quite weird because it
involves closing and opening butter to
first compaction to run garbage
collection and I need to read more about
that it's weird
so yeah I just need to like give it a
day of work to see where it's okay and
so given just given timing I guess
context setting for for the team is that
we have pretty much this this week of
work next week of work is is going to be
team week related stuff and so we're
going to be pretty pretty heads down and
there's gonna be time for Hackney on
stuff but I wouldn't imagine a lot of
people are having time to get their
their normal stream of stuff done and
then folks who are going to ipfs camp
are gonna be busy through the through
the end of June and that that leads us
into q3 so when we're thinking about
things like okay ours or other
initiatives that we'd like to to land
alright we have limited limited time on
our hands let's make sure we're
prioritizing it too to get things over
the finish line if if that is possible
um and just at the very least what we're
gonna need to have in our minds of like
where what is left on this thing is it
something we're continuing on into q3 to
continue pushing on or are we abandoning
this or
great thanks for that Molly
moving on to bit swap if everyone's okay
good yeah I know Hannah's out last
weekend this week on vacation she did
put up a PR use realistic test network
with DHT and which needs review so
Imperium subnet can you check that check
that out this week if you have time
there's no data session moving on to
core API Lucas I think you're working on
this as well yes oh I spam half of at
least half of last week debugging pops
up issue where if pops of SAP was
running under nyan and you tried to
custody money it would just hang for
whatever reason and yeah it turns out
the banking multiple context and like 5
thirteenth's at one time is hard so it
took some time but it's fixed now and
the constructor for request is ready for
if you know nice you down to post that
in the in the career path just the link
like well Who am I out of date is ever
saying oh okay great
sorry about that thank you Dominic okay
that's departing looks like this is you
as well doing everything this week yeah
so that's on the topic of who cares
that is one of my okay as for q2 but
there is very little hope of finishing
it with in q2 so as we probably carry
over to Q free but yeah I started
working on some bunch
to have something to compare against I
probably know what I will do to improve
things so it mainly will be just abandon
any use of amethyst in Korean each other
because it creates like three times or
four times overhead for some calls when
I didn't meant many files and
directories so yeah that should help
great this initiative is gonna carry
over so is that that's truce all
included in that in next week's list of
initiatives as well so provider record
so I'm working on that I'm working on
the provider itõs a little not
distracted but I had I was multitasking
last week
basically the JFS team has some stuff
going on that I reviewed looked at have
been having some conversations around I
went through I introduced a provider
tagging went through the issues list and
tried to either review or closed
org and tag anything that's provider
related just so I can keep keep track of
it and then I spent a I was out sick on
Friday but on Thursday I started
extracting the provider module from the
go ipfs repo there's one dependency on
the penny service that causes some
problems for dependency injection where
like I tried making an interface like I
just like putting just the interface
that I need from the ping service indigo
ipfs provider module but then it's not
being provided in the DI container so
I'm just working on that today and then
once that's done I want to get the the
CI reading the rest of the stuff that we
fo to make a little more a little more
official and get that out to Hector for
the cluster that's kind of my those are
my priorities today I mean for this week
any questions for provider records
great about the base 32 okay yes you
know I'm people using the provider
records fix that we you know turning off
providing um is that something that's
already like accessible to people or is
that gonna be it is it it is accessible
I haven't um I had I was coordinating
with Aaron for from infra for the for
rolling it out in to get to some of the
gateways I need to pick up that
conversation again I just yeah I'll try
to get on that I guess I'm probably
looping and burns on that Michael burns
as the closest gateway person and I
think you probably really know george
george megrath but the two of them are
leaving gateway tried right now
that's george like carbon 5 George oh
great ok yeah well I will start that
conversation with both with both of them
thanks family ok moving on to the base
three to CID v1 work Lydell can't join
but it has a question about next steps
and has a link to an issue if any
security was realistic to ship new Co
ipfs with this before camp or are we
moving this to July if someone qualified
to answer that can take a look at them
please
and moving on top hip ipfs over a few
stammen eight yeah sure not much to
report this week i have mostly been
spending time on camp related stuff kind
of preparing in a way to speak with the
team about that and then the following
week speak to I guess the community
about that kind of stuff
so yeah a lot of a lot of prep work not
a lot of presentation work yep that's it
for me do you want to just give like a
teeny I know you're gonna probably be
telling is this next week as well but
just like very
very high-level picture on like where
we're at what's remaining and like kind
of like the next steps on it and then we
can dive deeper into that next week that
we're going in at least with a little
bit of of context in a big big picture
totally so something I have been doing
recently has been like looking at other
file systems and then like other things
that are like file systems one of those
being IPL D so something that they were
talking about at their last meeting was
kind of like the metadata around I guess
like node metadata and stuff like that
and that's something that's kind of
undefined in my space at the moment so
it seems I'm kind of undefined or
loosely defined they're totally
undefined in my domain and I kind of
have the same problem that they're
having where we can kind of do basically
whatever we need to do but we don't
really know what that is
so it's a matter of like asking
developers kind of what do you want to
see out of this like how do you how
would you use this API um that's that's
kind of the thing I'm trying to focus on
next I guess and then like the state of
where things is is that we have an
implementation up that can do ace a
specific thing so it mimics a UNIX file
system and then we can create this other
thing that doesn't necessarily have to
be UNIX like it can be go like or if we
coordinate with the Jas team it'll be
similar to a j s- library something like
that i don't know if that's paints a
clear picture but that's where I'm at
Dominic you're the metadata you're
talking about around nodes that's around
like like IPL denotes like blocks right
yeah so in the file system we have
basically the same kind of abstraction
of that we don't care what it is we just
want to know that it's a node and have a
certain common interface with that so
something I saw in plan nine was they
have this concept of like every node has
a version and it's not really important
for anything other than caching so it's
it's this abstraction of like things
like that which are not very typical in
UNIX systems where it's basically a bowl
of like has this thing changed or not
and you don't have to know anything
about what that data is formatted like
or anything outside of this like header
or this metadata structure which could
be stored essentially anywhere so the
UNIX service to has place for metadata
but he's admitted if it needs to be in
the file system or metadata that just
turned like needs to be stored locally
that is that is kind of the boundary
that I'm trying to define there is like
what got it is local and what is
universal I suppose
you know we have some discussions around
metadata for like providing and garbage
collection and stuff too I'd be curious
if you could point me to I'll go looking
myself but if you if you know of
anything that's written down that the IP
LD folks are talking about I'd love to
love to look at that generalize it may
not be exactly the same metadata okay
Gateway performance does anyone have an
update for that you definitely do I
hoping that I guess I can give a really
high-level overview and then maybe folks
who are more tactically so I think as
people notice the gateways have been
struggling for the past couple of weeks
so we've rolled out 421 to a number of
gateway nodes um
I don't quite know if it's it's a
hundred percent yet and have been doing
a lot of investigating we spun back up
the the Gateway tiger team and renamed
it the Gateway fire squad because we're
dealing with with fires and tigers at
the moment um and have been kind of
jumping in to address so roll has been
doing a lot of instrumentation and
adding more metrics to the DHT I don't
know whether those all got pushed out
over the weekend but if not there are a
couple of more that we can push out to
to prod on the gateways and get some
feedback on weird the slowdowns are
happening and there's already been some
some information collected through that
and so I think roll already has closer
ideas of where the problems are and
Steven was pushing on like an actual an
actual fix that he thought was a root
cause of some of the issues that people
have been seeing and then I think kuba
and or other Jeremy um you might have
jumped in on helping instrument some of
the stuff the high level goal being if
we add better instrumentation to
gateways into the the Lib p2p network
and we're gonna have a better sense of
where the problems are happening and
it's gonna be faster for us to debug
issues and prevent issues in the future
and so that's we have kind of a tactical
track on this
like let's just figure it out right now
and then we have a more forward-looking
track of what are the things that we
want to be alerting on over time and the
Gateway team can is helping set up some
of that we have a meeting I think right
after this one too
to talk about our status on that and how
how those changes that were ended does
anyone else have a more tactical update
to me so the the other thing that will
help the network with 404 21 is more
people upgrade that will only help
because that includes a few fixes for
some people address lotion we were
basically some of the keynotes will
remember all the dresses and won't
forget them as you give them new
addresses so that when I wish I was
going to try to help 20 addresses or
4,800 instead of just like one or two
good addresses which make battling take
longer that's still not a complete fix
though the real fix here will be not
joining the DHD if you're an emerald
that's always way and they look like in
that much fun require in China but the
upgrade before it'll be viable so we
just changed the defaults to some people
in DHT client mode um all right yes so
that's thing we can do an IPS s the
questions like do we want to change this
you see white people there's a config
currently unfortunately we build all of
these people into the config so like we
have no there told me if the user
explicitly said I want to be the HT node
or if that's just the default to the
Gudrun recreational interest kicked em
off with the HD and we say hey when you
upgrade we run this migration if you
want to rejoin the DRC's please do this
I really don't want to do that but I
think that may be the best way of doing
that at this point yeah because like
otherwise just like upgrading maybe some
issues you don't select the partners so
if you have a lot of partners that are
controlling one of these nodes or they
may be able to just switch on some
things I want to make sure that Excel
and opals are not putting all the notes
like all the mobile nodes the ICC
service but yeah sounds worth um
starting to a conversation about that I
don't know whether that's this week but
that's like we could have a conference
and then we feel like you know we're
gonna have them all they're doing like
the best hand that might be a good
opportunity to like get a lot of Acts
and something out quickly cuz I'm just
worried this thing is gonna end up in
like it'd be a really good idea it's
really not hard to do but we just
haven't made a decision on it and
therefore it takes months different
implements it and ships it and then
we're good no pie great great thank you
both for that update
moving on to graph sync I there's no
update posted and Anna is not here today
so if anyone else has information on
what's going on perhaps that would be
appreciated
anyone yeah um nothing like me I should
have updated the note so we had a
meeting on Monday with Alex north on the
Falcon teams you just get a sense of
kind of what our timeline as Aslan
grassing Tiger team is looking at like
and what our first first date user's
timeline is like and whether that's
gonna fit well we think we are lining
things up but we don't have much slack
on our timeline right now so Eric is
Eric Meyer on that guildy team is
pushing really hard on getting selectors
spect out and a design of this that's
final enough for kind of solidifying
that interface there such that Hanna can
do the the remaining work to start
integrating go graphs in ink with the go
IPL d-prime selectors and so that is
probably gonna be happening the first
week of July or so and we're trying to
aim to be doing starting the integration
with go file coin in mid-july and so not
a whole lot of wiggle room to get the
stuff done and Hanna estimated about
it's about a week issue of work probably
to do the integration with guilty prime
which is I mean she's already been
thinking a lot about this and very on
board with stuff but also like when
interfaces change there's always new
things that come up and and like some
changes that need to be made so that's
kind of where everything is where we
want to have a conversation about this
Wow
lots of people are sync with each other
in Barcelona and so we should keep that
on our agenda and make sure you find
time during an uncommon to
you know be looking through Eric's
selector stuff and making sure that
we're super good to go on it so right
when July starts we can hit the ground
running
you
great thanks again for that update
process improvements
I see nothing listed here Eric did asked
me to do these meetings for a few weeks
I don't I I I'm suspicious of his uh his
improving but yeah I think we're still
working on all of that
moving on to garbage collection unless
anyone has questions about or any other
comments on costs and those stuff I
might have missed the beginning but he's
Eric he's Eric out of town where is he
sick or should we be sending flowers
he's vacationing he's good
appreciate that though so garbage
collection I added this on here until
the provider stuff gets closer to
wrapping up this probably not gonna be
huge updates on this but I'm gonna try
to push the low-hanging fruit forward
steadily as much as I can
turns out that the JSI PFS teen is also
doing stuff around garbage collection I
kind of sort of randomly and talking
about the provider stuff with someone
learned that and so I've been trying to
read up on on some stuff that they're
doing and also having some discussions
there I have started putting together
the bigger garbage collection issue and
I'm also gonna do the same thing where I
go through and try to find everything
that's related and try to bring it all
together into one issue I started that
process I just have them I just haven't
got it all together yet so so I'm still
working like I'm still working on and
that's it for the initiatives unless
someone has questions about anything
that we just discussed cross-team
updates I don't I don't think we have
any any anyone here to speak to me at
least but testbed anyone have anything
to say about their statuses with the IPS
improvements that we're hoping to land a
penis for go and J s IP ns
improvements the Hugo's been working on
I personally can't speak to that does
that work I know that Adi has been a
stuffer yeah
I didn't say still working on the pub
some stuff he's been talking about visa
on that I know there are some there's
still some back and forth on Thursday
but I hand out the I don't know what's
going on with the JavaScript side do you
know I know a little bit so who is
owning the I penis to DNS for like
within the web browsers working group
and so is goal is to have that completed
still this week or next week because
workshop on identity will rely on it I
don't believe there is a spec I think
these like work is very develop on on
the description that pilars wrote a
while back and so I think right now it's
very G eccentric like I think it's like
a way to do my penis resolutions over
the NS but I Connelly being implemented
in jest I don't think I've been he's
replicating network in go side but I
could this is like because as I said in
the beginning I know barely made it
maybe they're like check me that in for
sure
okay just having this some document I
can look at it because like if there's
some know this Kalia v1 but it doesn't
sound like it should be that hard to go
because we have a bunch of good DNS
libraries you can just throw and pull
the data the server-side it's like more
complicated apply inside so I think it'd
just have a hacky well yeah exactly
like once these notes will loop from is
feeding it the per request I'll just
like being a bunch of people I know like
today there's a lot of people out
because it's in national holiday in a
bunch of countries and so we might have
got an update tomorrow small noise
be mindful of people's time that it's
10:30
great okay we have I'm sure we have wins
and celebrations we just don't have that
written down and we have no questions or
note so I think that that is it unless
they wanted cooperation Jeremy said that
around 50,000 notes we have updated to
the latest version I think it's worth it
right nice nice 421 but you know Porter
was on Friday so if he was like 24 hours
of pushing out a blog post on it that we
hit a ton of things which is awesome and
shows us that a blog post route things a
lot of people maybe more people who
Twitter followers so cool it also means
it goes hard waste of time yeah people
are hungry for updates I think it's also
that on Thursday in ceará had a
scheduled update to all of if you're
hosted nodes which is a lot so I think
about it fully responsible for 40,000
upgrades
I wonder ended it out so we shall so
check with them to make sure that the
nodes aren't firewalled
they are I think like that it's also
like I think I professed desktops like
they do just the IPTS movie team I spend
a lot of working out updating or
enabling users just click on one box and
I get to know that updated for a
professor stuff which which apparently
helps a lot and they're like right now
like 50k downloads or something like of
course like not all of them are always
on all time
BAM it's a lot of notes coming on there
nice cool so three UX and be like how
many times should we really be updating
people to update their node because
right now I get a notification about
like on average twice a day to update my
desktop node which is maybe a little
more than than I need nice cool I think
that's that state I think we're all
gonna see each other in person next week
probably I think I might be traveling I
might be arriving around the time of
death the meeting but yeah but
foreseeable actively canceling this
meeting because I think a lot of people
will be and route and will be together
but maybe instead we try and carve out
if folks are around in the evening of
the day to just have kind of an
in-person like check in or below or
something like that yeah yeah can I
speak speak with you right after the
meeting about just a logistic procedural
thing Molly
sure and it'll probably take just one
minute okay perfect thank you okay I
think that's a wrap
I'll stop recording